[MUSIC]
>> Scott Moss: Let's just go over quickly
a simple Todo implementation here in React
for the web.
There's a few ways you can do this,
and I'll probably walk through one or
two different ways we can do it.
So a basic Todo app,
the first thing we want to do is,
we know that we need to keep track of the
Todos that we've written here on the page.
So inside of our constructor function,
after we call super,
because we're extending component here,
I'm just gonna set up a place where
we can actually store those todos.
I'm just gonna call them todos.
And it's gonna be an array.
And then I'm gonna come down
here to our return, and
I'm gonna set up some basic templating for
our todo app here.
So let's just have a div and
then we use a form here.
So we can use the enter button for
free and
then what we'll do is we
need to have a input.
So let's make a input and
let's put a placeholder.
So there's new todo and
it will also need a button
that will say create.
And then underneath that form, that's
where we're just list all of our todos.
So I'll just make a ul here and
then inside that ul I'm
going to iterate over
the todos inside of our state.
So using the brackets for
that interpolation JavaScript,
I'll say this.state.todos.map which is
gonna give us access that individual todo.
And then I'm just going to go ahead and
return an li here for
each todo with a todo in there.
So that's literally just iterating
over the todos array and then for
each one return this element.
That's what's happening here,
I'm just doing it all on one line.
It's fancy.
So we got that part.
So the next thing we need to do is somehow
is capture the value of the input which is
gonna be where we type in our new todo.
And then on click,
add that new todo to our todos collection.
So there's two ways we can do it.
The first we can do it is you can keep
track of that state of the input.
And that's what I will do first.
So I'll just come in here,
and say, new todo on state.
And I'm gonna set it to
empty string by default.
Then I'm gonna come down to our input, and
I'm going to bind to this value prop here.
And the value is going to
be this.state.newTodo.
So that's gonna be a value for our input,
which is just going to be an empty string.
But now when that value changes,
also once, I'm sorry when the input
value changes, also wanna update
this.state.newTodos value.
So what I can do is also I can use
the onChange property here and
I can pass in a method.
So let's just make of that it
we'll call this handleChange and
it's gonna receive the event so
I'll just put e here.
And because this event right
here is actually gonna be
the change event that
happened on this input.
So we can actually get
the value by saying,
const we'll say value =,
>> Scott Moss: From the e.target.
So I'm just gonna get the value here.
This is just a shortcut.
This is de-structuring.
This is equivalent of just doing that,
it's the same thing.
I just didn't wanna write value twice.
So I did destructuring on the property or
an object.
So we get the value there and then we need
to update the new todo with that value.
So then we'll say this.setState,
which is a function and
the state that we want to set.
So the state you wanna set the new todo.
And we wanna set that equal to
the value that we just got.
So now when we type, and then we need
to come down to the onChange, and
actually type in that method.
So this.handleChange.bindthis.
So now as we type the value updates,
let's just check that out right quick.
I guess I need to serve it.
>> [INAUDIBLE]
>> Scott Moss: Yeah,
sorry about that,
that is kind of small, yeah.
[LAUGH] Is that better?
Is that better, yeah?
Cool, I'll bump this, too, there we go.
So now when we type,
the input updates as normally.
But just to show you why
we actually needed that.
If I got rid of the onChange, and left
the value, the input's not gonna update.
Let's check it out.
See, I'm actually typing right now, but
the input's not updating because the
values is bound to whatever the state is
which is never changing it's
always an empty stream.
So, it doesn't matter what you type in,
the value is always going to be
set to whatever the state is.
So that's why we had to
put that onChange there.
So now onChange, we're just updating the
state so that unidirectional data flow.
So the input changes the state and
the state comes back around, and
then changes the value.
So we have that.
And then on the button click, what we
wanna do, is we wanna take that value,
and we wanna add it to our todos array.
So we can do on here,
is we can say onClick.
>> Scott Moss: And
then onClick, let's just
say this.handleClick.
And let's come in here,
make another method called handleClick.
Now this also is gonna receive the click
event and because we're using a form, we
wanna prevent the default, otherwise it's
going to try to send it to the server.
>> Scott Moss: There we go.
And then all we wanna do in here is just
update the Todo state
with the newTodo state.
So we can just say const todos =.
We can make a new array here inline.
And we can spread over
the already todo state.
And then we just go ahead and
add in the new todo state,
which is this.state.newTodo.
And then now all we gotta
do is call set state.
This.setState and
the state that we wanna set this todos.
And I only have to write it once,
again, because it's the same name.
The to do value is the same
name as the to do property,
it's equivalent of doing this.
So I can just do it once, sweet.
Don't you also wanna set new todo?
Yeah, and then I also want to overwrite,
I need to do to be a new string so
it empties out the value, the input so
it's not stayed in there.
Nice, so let's check this out.
So if we say, clean up.
We get the clean up the value emptied out.
Lift, code, there we go.
So that's one way to do it.
Another way we could have done,
actually, any questions on that so far?
No?
>> Speaker 2: I wasn't sure if I caught
how I cleaned out the the value.
>> Scott Moss: Yeah.
>> Speaker 2: Aside from setting the state
was there something else?
>> Scott Moss: Nope, that's it.
We just set the state, and
that's because the input is always
gonna be bound to that state.
So whatever that state is,
that's the value of the input.
It's not whatever the person types in,
it's whatever this state is.
>> Speaker 2: That's the part
I didn't figure out on mine.
>> Scott Moss: Yeah.